Adjust initialization lifecycle wording for stateless cases (#1372)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/specification/draft/basic/transports.mdx

### Session Management

An MCP "session" consists of logically related interactions between a client and a
server. To support servers which want to establish stateful sessions:

1. A server using the Streamable HTTP transport **MAY** assign a session ID by including
   it in an `Mcp-Session-Id` header on any HTTP response.
   - The session ID **SHOULD** be globally unique and cryptographically secure (e.g., a
     securely generated UUID, a JWT, or a cryptographic hash).

>    - The session ID **MUST** only contain visible ASCII characters (ranging from 0x21 to

Reviewer: I like that wording! Let's go with it.

### Session Management

An MCP "session" consists of logically related interactions between a client and a
server. To support servers which want to establish stateful sessions:

1. A server using the Streamable HTTP transport **MAY** assign a session ID by including
   it in an `Mcp-Session-Id` header on any HTTP response.
   - The session ID **SHOULD** be globally unique and cryptographically secure (e.g., a
     securely generated UUID, a JWT, or a cryptographic hash).
   - The session ID **MUST** only contain visible ASCII characters (ranging from 0x21 to
     0x7E).

> 2. If an `Mcp-Session-Id` is returned by the server during initialization, clients using

Reviewer: I think there is general consensus that we should make initialization optional, since most/maybe all the official SDKs do not actually require it.

But I think we'd be overstepping if we tried to make sessions exclusive to connections that include an initialization phase. I don't know how the other SDKs work, but the C# SDK will _offer_ a sessionId in the response of any request that did not include one. The client is free to ignore this or use it to connect that requests with others it may send.

> 2. If an `Mcp-Session-Id` is returned by the server during initialization, clients using

Reviewer 2: @mikekistler BTW, the Go SDK _used_ to always offer a session ID, and upon a closer reading of the spec we intentionally changed it to only offer session IDs during initialization. But if this is accepted, I will happily change it back.

> 2. If an `Mcp-Session-Id` is returned by the server during initialization, clients using

Reviewer: Agreed. Let's drop "during initialization".
```suggestion
2. If an `Mcp-Session-Id` is returned by the server, clients using
```

> 2. If an `Mcp-Session-Id` is returned by the server during initialization, clients using

Reviewer 3: > the C# SDK will offer a sessionId in the response of any request that did not include one

A small clarification to make here is that this is the default behavior for the C# SDK, but not how it behaves in the opt-in "stateless" mode. The point still stands that we want to be able support sessions even when initialization gets skipped though.

In stateless mode, the C# SDK currently only responds with a session ID during initialization because it uses parts of the `InitializeRequest` to generate the ID which is really an encrypted JSON payload containing things like the client name and version. But after I merge https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/csharp-sdk/pull/760, stateless mode won't generate a session ID at all.

### Session Management

An MCP "session" consists of logically related interactions between a client and a
server. To support establishing stateful sessions:

1. A server using the Streamable HTTP transport **MAY** assign a session ID by including
   it in an `Mcp-Session-Id` header on any HTTP response.
   - The session ID **SHOULD** be globally unique and cryptographically secure (e.g., a
     securely generated UUID, a JWT, or a cryptographic hash).
   - The session ID **MUST** only contain visible ASCII characters (ranging from 0x21 to
     0x7E).
2. If an `Mcp-Session-Id` is returned by the server, clients using
   the Streamable HTTP transport **MUST** include it in the `Mcp-Session-Id` header on
   all of their subsequent HTTP requests meant for that session.
   - Servers that require a session ID **SHOULD** respond to requests without an
     `Mcp-Session-Id` header (other than initialization) with HTTP 400 Bad Request.
3. The server **MAY** terminate the session at any time, after which it **MUST** respond
   to requests containing that session ID with HTTP 404 Not Found.

> 4. When a client receives HTTP 404 in response to a request containing an
>    `Mcp-Session-Id` obtained through an [initialization phase](/specification/draft/basic/lifecycle),
>    it **SHOULD** start a new session by sending a new `InitializeRequest`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. When a client receives HTTP 404 in response to a request containing an `Mcp-Session-Id`,
   it **MUST** stop using that `Mcp-Sesssion-Id` and **SHOULD** start a new session by sending a new `InitializeRequest`
```

I concur with @findleyr that the "obtained through an [initialization phase](/specification/draft/basic/lifecycle)" bit is slightly inaccurate now that the `Mcp-Session-Id` can be part of "any HTTP response." And ultimately, how a client should deal with a 404 response to a request containing an `Mcp-Session-Id` does not really depend on whether the session ID was obtained correctly. It seems redundant to explain how the session ID should have been obtained here.

Also, I understand changing the MUST to a SHOULD for sending the `InitializeRequest` after this happens considering that's the point of this PR, but I think it's worth pointing out the client still MUST stop using the session ID after getting a 404 response.

Reviewer: Good catch @halter73! I like your proposed change.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion! Done!

### Session Management

An MCP "session" consists of logically related interactions between a client and a

> server. To support establishing stateful sessions:

Reviewer: We should revert this change.
```suggestion
server, beginning with the [initialization phase](/specification/draft/basic/lifecycle). To support
servers which want to establish stateful sessions:
```
